Add docs for PII management (#12505)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/pii-management.mdx

---
id: pii-management
sidebar_label: PII Management
title: PII Management
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
import RasaProLabel from "@theme/RasaProLabel";

import RasaProBanner from "@theme/RasaProBanner";

<RasaProLabel />

<RasaProBanner />

:::info New in 3.6

You can now anonymize personally identifiable information (PII) data in your logs and events streamed via Kafka event
broker only. Continue reading to learn how to enable the anonymization of PII data.

:::

Management of sensitive customer data collected by assistants is a critical requirement for complying with regulations
and managing the data securely while making it available for analysis.
Rasa Pro 3.6 introduces the ability to anonymize PII data in your logs and events streamed via the Kafka event broker.

> Note that the tracker store continues to store conversation data which is not anonymized because the tracker store data

Reviewer: Can we make it more clear here why we are not anonimizing the tracker store in this version? 
Eg.: we want to retain a source of truth for pristine data for non-repudiation purposes. And probably also prediction..? (not sure)

Author: Addressed 👍🏻 
https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/12505/commits/f1b891cdcec2108822c99ebc3dc629c88d44c5b4

plays a vital role in the assistant's dialogue management.

## Architecture Overview

> The anonymization of the Rasa event is run through an anonymization pipeline at the end of the dialogue management

Reviewer: such a great overview:)

sidebar_label: PII Management
title: PII Management
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
import RasaProLabel from "@theme/RasaProLabel";

import RasaProBanner from "@theme/RasaProBanner";

<RasaProLabel />

<RasaProBanner />

:::info New in 3.6

You can now anonymize personally identifiable information (PII) data in your logs and events streamed via Kafka event
broker only. Continue reading to learn how to enable the anonymization of PII data.

:::

Management of sensitive customer data collected by assistants is a critical requirement for complying with regulations
and managing the data securely while making it available for analysis.
Rasa Pro 3.6 introduces the ability to anonymize PII data in your logs and events streamed via the Kafka event broker.

Note that the tracker store continues to store conversation data which is not anonymized. This is required so that we
retain a source of truth for pristine data required for non-repudiation purposes. In addition, because the tracker store
data plays a vital role in the assistant's dialogue management at inference time, anonymizing data in flight could have
undesirable consequences for the assistant's action predictions.

> 

Author: Addressed: https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/12505/commits/89614a3ac29e11cec847a8e67ccc3a0407aad78f
I've clarified a few other assumptions and added some more detail in other parts, so re-requesting review.

## Architecture Overview

The anonymization of the Rasa event is run through an anonymization pipeline at the end of the dialogue management

> action prediction and execution. The Rasa agent will invoke the anonymization pipeline during each user message

Reviewer 2: > The Rasa agent will invoke the anonymization pipeline during each user message handling before saving the un-anonymized new events to the tracker store.

This line sounds a little contradicting 😕 we are running the anonymization pipeline and then saving un-anonymized events to the tracker store?

Author: It's not contradictory, I mention in L26-29 that the tracker store remains single source of truth for pristine unanonymized data. The pipeline only anonymizes data streamed to specific topics consumed by Kafka consumers. Let me know how I should rephrase this to be clear.

Reviewer 2: can we be explicit about the sequence of events that happens here.
- Agent invokes the anonymization pipeline
- Anonymized events are published onto the event broker
- un-anonymized events are then saved in the tracker store.

In the architecture overview, i think have the order of what happens to the events is important. 
Also are we only anonymising the UserMessage event or also BotUttered?

Author: > can we be explicit about the sequence of events that happens here

Addressed: can we be explicit about the sequence of events that happens here

> are we only anonymising the UserMessage event or also BotUttered?

We are anonymizing UserUttered, BotUttered, SlotSet and EntitiesAdded, I've clarified the events in a subsection just below the Architecture Overview, although used their class type name rather than code reference name. Let me know which one would be clearer.

Reviewer 2: I think class type is clear. makes sense. thank you. everything looks very clear to me 💯

Author: Yay, that's great! Thank you for your thorough review ⚡ I will wait for Lena's review on Monday before merging this.

to the `mask` substitution method.

## How to update the Kafka event broker configuration

The anonymization pipeline uses Kafka to publish the anonymized events to the Kafka topic that is mapped to the
anonymization rule list. You can configure the Kafka event broker in the `endpoints.yml` file. The Kafka event broker
must contain the `anonymization_topics` section, which must have the following structure:

```yaml
event_broker:
  type: kafka
  partition_by_sender: True
  security_protocol: PLAINTEXT
  url: localhost
  anonymization_topics:
    - name: topic_1
      anonymization_rules: rules_1
    - name: topic_2
      anonymization_rules: rules_2
  client_id: kafka-python-rasa
```

The `anonymization_topics` section contains a list of Kafka topics to which the anonymized events will be published.
Each Kafka topic must have a `name` field and an `anonymization_rules` field. The `name` field specifies the name of the
Kafka topic. The `anonymization_rules` field specifies the `id` of the anonymization rule list to be used for the Kafka topic.

## How to enable anonymization of PII in logs

> You can enable anonymization of PII in logs by filling the `logger` section in the `endpoints.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: How is this different from `custom-logging-configuration`?

Author: The logging file CLI option is used for configuring the  `logging` Python std library which was the dominant logging method we used in the codebase. However, in order to be able to hook the pipeline in PII leaking logs only (and not across all the possible logs), we chose to use `structlog` library instead which uses the [concept of processor chains](https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/getting-started.html#manipulating-log-entries-in-flight), we created our own processor (the anonymizer). In a nutshell, you can't use the logging file with structlog as far as I'm aware or it's for a separate ticket to work on how to enable this. Let me know if any of this needs to be clarified in the docs. I thought it's an implementation detail but the reality is that now the logs will be a mix of new structured logs and old logs with text messages.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure how many are using custom logging configuration anyway, perhaps we can move custom logging configurations to rasa pro and use endpoints.yml to harmonize it. but nevertheless it is a separate conversation. I dont see it contradicting the docs here so we are good

The `logger` section must have the following structure:

```yaml
logger:
  formatter:

>     anonymization_rules: rules_1

Reviewer 2: can this be also a list of rules?

Author: No, this can only be a string and must match and `id` of the anonymization rule list in the `anonymization` section. So all rules are grouped only in that section.

If you want to use `spacy`, we strongly recommend to use the available large models, such as `en_core_web_lg` or `es_core_news_lg`.
This is to ensure more accurate entity recognition.

:::caution
When using large models, you must ensure that your Rasa Pro environment has enough memory to load the model.

:::

If you opt for using the `transformers` model provider, you must specify two model names in the `model_name` field:
the HuggingFace model name and the spaCy model name, where the spacy model would wrap the transformers NER model.
For example:

```yaml
anonymization:
  metadata:
    language: en
    model_name:
       spacy: en_core_web_lg
       transformers: dslim/bert-base-NER
    model_provider: transformers
```
#### How to install the language  model

You must install the model name you declare to the `model_name` field in your Rasa Pro environment.
For example, if you declare `model_name: en_core_web_lg`, you must install the spaCy `en_core_web_lg` model in your Rasa Pro environment.
You can follow model installation instructions for spaCy and stanza models in the [Presidio official documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/presidio/analyzer/nlp_engines/spacy_stanza/).

> In the case of the `transformers` model provider, you must install the model name you declare to the `model_name` field

Author: Good catch!

in your Rasa Pro environment. For example, if you declare `model_name: dslim/bert-base-NER` in `endpoints.yml`, you must
install the `dslim/bert-base-NER` model in your Rasa Pro environment. You can find model download instructions for
`HuggingFace` in the [Presidio official documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/presidio/analyzer/nlp_engines/transformers/).

:::note
Not all languages have a pre-trained language model available. If you want to use a language that does not have
a pre-trained language model available, you must train your own [spaCy](https://spacy.io/usage/training), [stanza](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/stanza/training.html)
or [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/training) model and install it in your Rasa Pro environment.
:::

### How to populate the rule_lists section

The `rule_lists` section contains a list of anonymization rule lists. Each rule list must have a unique `id` of type

> string and a list of `rules`. Each rule must have an `entity` field and a `substitution` field. The `entity` field

Author: Nope, not possible at the moment, we only have support for the built-in Presidio entities. I'll see how I can clarify that regex is not supported.

> string and a list of `rules`. Each rule must have an `entity` field and a `substitution` field. The `entity` field

Author: Addressed: https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/12505/commits/ae10dcef4e1c8efe17e3e4f37b888af4506d3bd8

specifies the Presidio entity type to be anonymized and must be in uppercase.

The `substitution` field specifies the anonymization method to be used. Currently, the

> following anonymization methods are supported: `text`, `mask`, and `faker`. If no substitution method is specified,

Author: Good point 👍🏻

---
id: pii-management
sidebar_label: PII Management
title: PII Management
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
import RasaProLabel from "@theme/RasaProLabel";

import RasaProBanner from "@theme/RasaProBanner";

<RasaProLabel />

<RasaProBanner />

:::info New in 3.6

You can now anonymize personally identifiable information (PII) data in your logs and events streamed via Kafka event
broker only. Continue reading to learn how to enable the anonymization of PII data.

:::

Management of sensitive customer data collected by assistants is a critical requirement for complying with regulations
and managing the data securely while making it available for analysis.
Rasa Pro 3.6 introduces the ability to anonymize PII data in your logs and events streamed via the Kafka event broker.

Note that the Tracker Store continues to store conversation data which is not anonymized. This is required so that we

> retain a source of truth for pristine data required for non-repudiation purposes. Learn how to secure your Tracker Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
retain a source of truth of pristine data for non-repudiation purposes. Learn how to secure your Tracker Store
```

using [Vault secrets manager](./secrets-managers.mdx) to protect the source of truth with rotating credentials.

In addition, because the tracker store data plays a vital role in the assistant's dialogue management at inference time,
anonymizing data in flight could have undesirable consequences for the assistant's dialogue management action predictions.

## Architecture Overview

The anonymization of the Rasa event is run through an anonymization pipeline at the end of the dialogue management
action prediction and execution. Note that the processing done by the anonymization pipeline is scheduled as a background
task and does not affect the assistant's response time.

The anonymization steps are as follows:

> 1. The Rasa agent will invoke the anonymization pipeline during each user message handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Rasa agent invokes the anonymization pipeline during each user message handling.
```

> 2. The anonymization pipeline will run through a sequence of anonymization rules that are applied to the new events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The anonymization pipeline runs through a sequence of anonymization rules that are applied to the new events.
```

> 3. The pipeline will publish the anonymized events to the Kafka topic that is mapped to the anonymization rule list in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The pipeline publishes the anonymized events to the Kafka topic that are mapped to the anonymization rule list in
```

`endpoints.yml`.

> 4. The tracker store saves the original events which are not anonymized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The tracker store saves the original events that are not anonymized.
```

## How to write anonymization rules

You can now write anonymization rules in `endpoints.yml` to explicitly declare which Presidio entities should be anonymized.
The anonymization pipeline is configurable via the `anonymization` section in the `endpoints.yml` file.
This section must have the structure given in the following example:

```yaml
anonymization:
  metadata:
    language: en
    model_name: en_core_web_lg
    model_provider: spacy
  rule_lists:
    - id: rules_1
      rules:
        - entity: PERSON
          substitution: text
          value: John Doe
        - entity: LOCATION
          substitution: faker
        - entity: CREDIT_CARD
          substitution: faker
        - entity: IBAN_CODE
          substitution: faker
    - id: rules_2
      rules:
        - entity: CREDIT_CARD
          substitution: mask
        - entity: IBAN_CODE
          substitution: mask
```

### How to populate the metadata section

The metadata section contains the following fields: `language`, `model_name`, and `model_provider`.

The `language` field specifies the language code of the text to be anonymized. Note that you can only specify one language

> per anonymization pipeline because the assumption made was that an assistant will be developed for a single language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
per anonymization pipeline.
```

Reviewer: I deleted this because it made us look like we are building explicitly for single language bots. But perhaps if we phrased it differently?

Author: We need to document this assumption because the pipeline won't be able to work with language switching at the moment. How about: `because the capability is currently not able to handle language switching by end users.`

Author: Or maybe replace `because` with `therefore` 😄

The `model_name` and `model_provider` fields specify the name and provider of the Presidio model to be used for
anonymization. The available model providers are `spacy`, `stanza` and `transformers`.

If you want to use `spacy`, we strongly recommend to use the available large models, such as `en_core_web_lg` or `es_core_news_lg`.
This is to ensure more accurate entity recognition.

:::caution
When using large models, you must ensure that your Rasa Pro environment has enough memory to load the model.

:::

If you opt for using the `transformers` model provider, you must specify two model names in the `model_name` field:

> the HuggingFace model name and the spaCy model name, where the spacy model would wrap the transformers NER model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the HuggingFace model name and the spaCy model name, where the spaCy model would wrap the transformers NER model.
```
